# Undergraduate-Thesis-Code-Functional-Data-Analysis

Uploading continuously...

Functional data refers to an object of whom the changing trend with time or space going turns out a form of curve. Thus it is actually infinite-dimensional, which poses great challenges to us when we explore or analyze it. All these make it important to do some dimension reduction for functional data. Nowadays Functional Sliced inverse regression (FSIR) and Functional Sliced Average Variance Estimation (FSAVE) are two popular dimension reduction methods. However, as far most of dimension reduction methods are based on the classical estimates of the first and second moments of the data, requiring data distributed as Gaussian distribution, and therefore sensitive to outliers. This paper still observes the basic theory of FSIR but does not ignore the prerequisite of the standard methods of Gaussian distribution any more. Instead, the paper extends the inverse regression formulation of SIR to non-Gaussian errors Student distributed, a kind of heavy-tailed distribution. Its characteristics accommodate the existence of outliers, making it a robust method compared to standard SIR. The former attack approach cannot remain useful under Student distributed errors, since the linearity condition no longer satisfying, and therefore this paper considers figuring out the dimension reduction subspace using Expectation-Maximization algorithm. At last, this paper uses simulated data to show that in the presence of outliers, the newly proposed method, that’s say, functional Student SIR outperforms standard SIR to some degree.
